to the same.
I tagged you yesterday in one of my
conference actually.
>> What was it?
It was multicloud uh you know AI uh
Oracle uh 2026 conference which happens
twice twice in a year and it was in
Hyderabad. So I came today just uh you
know
>> an hour before.
>> So even if I left Oracle but you know
people are in touch base with me and I'm
a core volunteer for that actually.
>> Oh great great
>> that's why so
>> nice.
So
there was a doubt session few of the
folks utilized that opportunity and I
couldn't see everyone but uh okay let's
see
>> and I got to know that gro uh you know
the latest version uh is on uh OCI
>> okay
>> and because of that it's the performance
and all has you know um maybe they
quoted I didn't use that but yes I
definitely going to try
>> I haven't logged in into OCI
since months now
>> so I though
I I said they probably gro they you know
that has been hosted on probably on OCI
that's what I got to
Good.
So last session
we finished with
this tool calling and lchain. Okay.
So
let me see if there are any questions in
that lab. This was the second one which
we were
discussing. I'll just quickly revise
this. Okay. Uh this went on till late
part of the session. So maybe some of
the folks had already dropped off but
most of the things were discussed I
think uh well within the class time
itself.
link for the lab to open.
Yeah. So what we learned in this was uh
how to create nodes, how to create
edges. Nodes are these boxes, square
boxes. There are two built-in nodes. One
is to capture the conversation starter
conversation starter and end is to end
the entire conversation. So these are
built-in. We are just importing them and
we are adding some custom nodes and the
connections between these nodes are done
by edges. So add node, add edges. This
is how you add the nodes. This is how
you add the edges. Okay. So, uh you know
starting node sorry in the edges the
starting node and the ending node name
and while you uh add the node here
itself you have to provide the name for
the node which will be displayed and
this is a Python function that you will
bind uh against that particular node for
execution. Right? So that's how the
structure looks like.
So what we initially saw was um the
problem with the overwriting state.
Basically if there are more than one
nodes and each node is updating the same
state okay without the reducer it tends
to override. So the solution was to
introduce a reducer and the reducer that
we are using is add messages. So now we
had a different version of our agent
state in which we are not simply using
messages as a string. Okay, we are using
messages as annotated list and I'm
adding the uh reducer. So this reducer
makes sure that the messages is a list
of lists. List of lists. So every
conversation gets added to the original
list as a list again. Okay.
So one example uh now you can see after
running that uh I'm printing the output
and when the output was printed you can
see the messages contained the first
list here which is coming from the
greeting sorry this is coming from your
uh conversation starter hey I need some
help then the second step was added from
greeting node and then the third step
was added from the inquiry node
Okay. And uh this is just to format and
print all these. So I'm just extracting
all these components from this entire
output and just printing them using this
for loop. Okay. So you can see I have
been able to retain all the three
messages back to back in the
uh agent state. Now in this cyclical
chatbot basically the idea was uh you'll
have a actual LM operating uh in one of
these agents sorry nodes and let's call
that node as a chatbot node I'm
initializing my model we are reading the
query from the learner or whatever user
okay using the state messages okay so
I'm just reading and then
creating a system prompt invoking the
model along with the system prompt and
the messages. So I'm just concatenating
these two list because every message is
a list you can say
and then uh after the model is invoked
I'm just appending the entire response
of the model back to the agent state.
Okay. So you can see the agent state
goes as the input and it is formatting
within that agent state. And then this
is a router function. Okay. This will
decide whether to continue the
conversation or end the conversation.
Okay. So if there is something called as
by it will return end. So it will go to
the end loop otherwise it will continue
to the chat.
So yeah now this is the langraph node uh
what we created here. You can see uh
entry point is set at the chatboard. So
this is my chatboard. So automatically
the start is connected to the chatboard
because of the entry point. And then we
are adding a conditional edge. Okay. So
conditional edges are technically not
visible. Uh I had drawn that. So in that
conditional edge uh two things are
happening. One is the chatbot.
Okay. Uh the source node. So your
chatbot source node is connected to the
should continue that is it is continuing
uh and uh so that is the basic function
which decides the route. So this is the
router function which we created above
here. Okay. And then this is the one
which is going to branch out.
Okay. So chatbot is connected to the
should continue. That's a deterministic
step. But should continue is now
connecting to two branches. Okay.
Draw this.
So
should continue.
Now that has got two branches as I said
one is continue chat
and the other end so that continue chat
is further connected to chatbot. So that
is connected back to the chatbot. So
here chatbot was connected to the should
continue. That's what you said right?
chatbot is connected to should continue
and that continue chat is connected back
to the chatbot. Okay. Whereas end is
connected to the end. So the other is
end which is connected to my node end.
Okay. That will end the conversation.
Right?
So that is the thing. So this is the
loop that we are having. So under what
condition it will continue the chat if
it does not see by. If it sees by then
it will end. And now you are compiling
this and uh you know building.
So that is what is also evident from the
langraph here. Okay. Uh there is a
comment.
So it is correct to say that lang graph
can be used for aentic and aentic
workflows. Yes, you can use it for agent
AI as well as aentic workflow. Yes.
So now this is a simple loop that is
going to interact with our chatbot. So
basically it is going to run this entire
agent and this within a for loop that's
what is technically happening. Okay. So
what we created this entire chatbot app
and if you see this chatbot app dot
invoke. So this entire chatbot itself is
invoked within the y loop and that is
going to run perpetually until the user
input says exit.
Okay. So that is what is happening and
uh the response contains the full
conversation history. So every time it
gets appended I'm reading the last AI
response and based on the last AI
response uh the conversation continues
anyway. Okay.
So I'm just also printing the AI
response. You can see every time I'm
just printing the AI response. Fine. And
I'm checking the condition on the user
in uh user input. So if the user says
exit then it will break this while loop.
It will no longer continue the
conversation.
Okay.
Now why is this part important? I mean
that this is a you know jugar that I
have done basically. So user input is
basically what the user is asking the
model to do or anything right and I'm
just appending this at the end say by.
So this is like a soft instruction for
the model to respond to the user input
and at the end say by so if you see any
of these outputs
okay uh at the end it says buy. Now why
is this buy needed? This buy is needed
so that uh my chatbot thinks that I have
received a buy. If you see chatbot
thinks that I have received a buy and so
I should end the iteration of the
uh
I should end the iteration of the lang
graph I mean this graph this graph ends
okay but the entire graph itself is
perpetually executed so literally I'm
not executing the continue chat because
that will go in an infinite loop okay uh
rather I'm executing the entire chatbot
itself in the infinite loop. Okay, which
is what the white rule not a good way
but we'll refine this method uh a bit
you know in the next notebook. Okay, so
this was a simple jugar to get rid of
the infinite loop thing. If you just
exit this part then the model will keep
iterating. Okay, that is a problem. The
model will keep iterating. Okay, because
it does not receive the response. So it
doesn't know when to exit and all
because you have said that say bye at
the end. So model will not say bye to
itself. That is the problem. Model will
not say bye to itself. So it will keep
on continuing the chart and it will keep
on going in that infinite loop. So that
is what I have seen. So just to uh
circumvent that scenario. Okay. I have
just added this part. So this is just a
small jugard which I fixed. Okay. So
that the model doesn't run in a infinite
loop. Okay. So this is the first thing
and then the so whatever the uh you know
AI responds at the end it will say bye.
So here you can see the model replies
and at the end says a by then again the
model replies at the end says by okay
this is where the model responds and in
fact says by.
Okay so every time the model responds at
the end says by so that this doesn't run
in an infinite loop. That's the thing.
Fine. So,
let's see if there are any questions.
Fine.
All good. Then this is done.
Just close this.
Confused about the reducer
functionality. This is actually
appending the state. then white is
called as reducer.
Okay, there is this is actually
nomenclature is coming from map reduce.
If you're confused about the name,
nothing can be done. Just understand the
functionality. Okay.
So I have not
given the names but uh I can give you
more technical explanation but that
still would be useless. Okay. Uh because
this much context is sufficient. If
still there is a confusion maybe let's
not get into too much technical details
that's not going to be very helpful. So
understand the overall functionality
that the reducer is helping to add all
the subsequent outputs of the nodes
append it to the main state. This is the
only oneline uh you know functionality
that you have to understand and explain
if asked. Okay, that is the only purpose
nothing more. So how technically it is
doing behind the scenes, why is it
called as reducer and all? No, we'll not
get into all that discussion.
Okay, neither it is needed friendly.
Okay. Uh now again this is a follow-up
tutorial. So here we are going to see
how to do conditional routing in much
more detail and this will build the
foundation of the chatbot that we are
going to build the agentic rag chatbot.
Okay. So I'll follow up on this. So
let's go ahead. I'll just share the
notebook here.
So in this we are going to build a
common and powerful type of agent which
is a customer support query router. So
we are going to build three specialized
agents. one for billing, one for
handling technical support and one for
handling general inquiries. Uh which
will simulate like a real world help
desk system. Okay.
Again, you'll have to start with the
installations of Langraph, Lang Chain,
OpenAI,
importing the
OpenAI keys.
Okay. Um
H. So this is our openi key that we are
importing and adding. Now again this is
the agent which will track all the
information flowing through our graph
and uh this is again a type dick that we
have explained and again this is a
simple one. So you don't see the reducer
here as of now. We'll be adding that
subsequently later. Okay. So this will
capture the user query and this will
update the department um that the router
will decide for. Okay. So initially the
department and query will be empty
strings and uh as the you know router
works the router is going to update the
department. So when the langraph starts
it will first populate the query. This
is the again you can think these two as
as your global variables okay available
in your support state. So query will be
instantly available the moment you
execute okay because that will capture
the user query actually and department
will be empty initially but the moment
the router function works okay it will
route it to one of the nodes and that
node will update the value of the
department that's what we'll see fine
okay so these are the destination nodes
so I'm going to create a billing node a
technical support node and an inquiry
node and these are the functions which
are going to be attached attached to
those nodes. Okay. Now see
as of now uh these nodes are not
returning anything essentially which
means they are not updating the state.
They're simply going to print.
Let me repeat these three nodes are
going to not make any changes to the
support state. It's I think clearly
written. It takes the state and can
return an update but right now it is not
returning anything. It doesn't modify
the state further in this simple example
first. Okay. So it is
it is reading uh you can see
H.
So these nodes that we are going to
create now okay they are just going to
print that okay uh the control has
entered that particular node. So welcome
to the billing department or welcome to
the technical support. So these are like
information or informative messages.
Okay, that will only indicate that the
control has reached the respective
department simply.
So, and now this is the routing function
the actual decision maker. Okay. So,
again here,
so this is a pyantic model which helps
the LLM structure its output. So, I'm
defining a kind of a pyantic schema.
Okay. So, this is the route the user
query to the correct department. The
department name has to be a string. So
that is the field and this is the
description.
Okay. And this has to be one of these
three either billing or technical
support or general query. So this is
like emulating your enum in your uh open
AI agent builder kit. Okay, your enum
enumerated. So enum is your enumerated
field in which you will be selecting one
of these three values and these one of
and any
of these three values are actually a
string. So ultimately whatever value
gets selected that will be appended to
your or that will be updated to your
department field. Okay, department is
the name of the field and this is the
entire description. So the department
field will have a value which is a
string and that string will be one of
these three. That's what we are simply
saying. Okay. So this way I'm enforcing
the router to update only one of these
three. It cannot update any other
imaginary field name or anything which
it can you know come up with creatively.
Okay. So you can set up your model. Uh
right now let's make it GPT5 mini. Okay.
So let me change it to GPT5 mini. Uh
then in that case I don't need the
temperature also. Okay. I'll just get
rid of the temperature.
So this is my model and uh I'm forcing
the model to give a structured output.
That is what so in this case the model's
output will not be a normal string. It
will be a string which is following this
JSON schema. This is not a JSON schema
but a pyantic schema. I would say that's
the correct way. Okay. So you're forcing
the model to give a structured output.
That's exactly what it is.
So this is like a output parser. Okay.
Whatever the string or JSON output the
model is giving the model is giving so
many outputs you can see. Okay. So all
of that gets formatted into the
response
which is given by the schema. Okay you
are passing that schema here and what
you have is the structured LLM now. So
normal LLM and that normal LLM
bound to a particular schema for output
is your structured LLM.
Now you create a prompt template. Uh
system prompt is simply you are an
expert in routing customer support
queries based on a user question. Route
it to the right department and it has to
be one of these three. Okay. Fine. And
then the human query comes in. Fine. So
that is a simple router prompt with a
human and the system message. I'm going
to
join the prompt with the structured llm.
So this is like uh prompt chaining okay
to the model simple lang chain okay and
that chaining is done using that
vertical pipe operator. So I have got my
query router chain. Now finally that
query router chain
will be invoked. Okay. uh but that
invoking will happen within a node.
Okay. So when the control reeves uh you
know reaches that particular node so
which node is going to execute you can
say I'll I will create a node by this
name called as query router node. Okay.
And that node will actually invoke that
particular chain with some user query.
Okay. Now that user query will be
fetched from where from the agent state.
So first I'm importing the agent state.
It is fetching the query from the agent
state and using that query to populate
the prompt template. Once the prompt
template has been populated, it will be
given to your structured LLM for
invoking. So this will be your complete
uh response from the model which will be
following the structured schema that we
have shared. Okay. And from that route I
will extract the field name called as
department because I have clearly
mentioned in my
uh schema that there should be a field
called as department. So I'm extracting
that value. So route dot department.
This could be simple response also. So
response dot department also you can
say. Okay. And that value will be a
string which will be updated in the
department field of your schema uh sorry
state. Okay. So this is the schema and
this is the state. So do get confused.
Okay. This is dot department is coming
from the pyantic schema. This is your
pyantic schema. So that has the name
department. So whatever the name you are
uh providing here let's say query
department. So then here it should be
route dotquery department whereas this
department is coming from the state
agent state. This is where it is getting
updated.
Okay. So remember that don't get
confused. You might be thinking why is
the department department two times.
Okay. So this is the complete response
from the response because it is going to
be a structured LLM response. It will
have a field called as department in the
response. I'm just extracting that
department value from the response and
that value of the department response is
going to be one of these three billing
support or technical. Yeah sorry billing
support. Yeah, this one it will be one
of these three values and one of those
three values will ultimately be updated
in the agent state which has also a
department named key.
Okay, so that is what is happening in
this code. Now let's build a graph here.
You are adding nodes. You are adding a
node for router. You are adding billing
node, technical support node, general
enquiry node. So four nodes are being
added. One is a router node, one is the
billing, one is the technical and one is
the general query. So I'm just adding
the nodes here. I'm adding the
conversation starter to the router
directly. So router will directly
capture the user query. Okay, that's
what is happening. And now I'm going to
connect all these nodes.
Okay, I'm going to connect all these
nodes.
So,
so here you are saying that okay uh you
have already added one node that is uh
sorry you have already added one edge.
So there is one connection which has
already added here from starting to
router. Now router will be connected
okay
to each of the three okay based on uh
what this lambda function is returning
okay so what you are returning so what
is x here
what is x
so it's a map basically so what is x
where is this x coming from x department
so x is a state ultimately. Okay, that's
your agent state. You are reading the
department value.
You are reading the department value.
Okay, so based on the department value
in your agent state, okay, the
connection of the router will happen to
billing or technical support or general
inquiry. That is what exactly this
function is doing.
Okay. So here this is kind of a uh
lambda function is uh your routing
function uh mimicking that.
So yeah same thing.
>> Okay. Uh and finally all of these three
will be connected to the end. So let me
execute this.
Uh
billing node is not defined.
Aa I
did not execute.
Fine. So now you can start compiling
this.
Okay. So conversation is captured by
start that directly goes to the router.
router will decide one of these three.
Okay. So this is the name of the node.
Okay. And these three nodes are going to
be three different agents in the next
project as of now. So these are dummy
nodes. As of now these are dummy nodes
as we have seen. These are just dummy
nodes. They are not doing anything.
They're not returning anything as you
see. Okay. They are neither doing
anything. They're just printing. Okay.
So these are currently dummy nodes. But
these dummy nodes will actually become
three different agents in the next
nodework. Rest all structure is going to
remain the same.
Okay. And when any of these three will
get triggered, the conversation will
end. Okay. So that's what is a
deterministic node uh edge sorry. So all
the deterministic edges are in solid
lines and conditional edges. Conditional
edge means those workflow or those part
of the workflow may execute may not
execute that is the conditional edge.
Okay. So anything that you see in dotted
lines these are conditional edges.
Anything in solid line that is a
deterministic edge. So that is going to
happen. So you see these are solid lines
which means if any of these three get
triggered the conversation has to end.
So we know that for sure. Okay. So yeah,
so let's run this. So I have my entire
app. Uh if you see you have compiled
that app. Okay. So once you have
compiled that app, all you have to do is
just invoke. Okay. And uh your billing
query. This is the query field.
So I can't find my last invoice and I
think my credit card was charged twice.
Okay. So there are two things in this
one is overcharging and one is billing.
So let's see what it thinks. Okay. So
when I invoke this
uh overall app
using this billing query
let's see what happens. So test case one
that is the print that I'm giving from
here. Classifying query that is again
coming from your execution. Okay, router
decision goes as billing. Now this
billing is coming from your model.
Remember that this billing is actually
coming from your model routing billing
to. So where is this coming? This is
coming from your router. Okay.
Uh sorry this is coming from your router
and this is coming from your uh if you
see here the three nodes that we created
correct routing to billing. You can see
routing to billing then welcome to the
billing department. That's exactly what
we see here. Okay.
Routing to billing. Welcome to the
billing department. Fine. You can just
check this.
So similarly I've got another query here
and you see the output finally.
Uh okay. Sorry I have to execute this.
Yeah. So that is the reason it is taking
time because actual API call is being
made. Okay. And so this is the final
output
query and the department is billing. So
this is the final agent state. Output is
your final agent state. Remember this is
your
this is your
final agent.
Wait.
Okay. Now another test case.
I'm getting 500 internal server error
when I try to login. So that seems to be
technical. And if you want to see the
output once again the final agent state
would have changed of course because
each time you invoke that's the
statement which I gave yesterday also.
So each time you invoke the entire graph
all the previous states are refreshed.
Okay. So the query is refreshed with the
new query. The department is refreshed
with the new department.
Okay. So I have to execute this. Was it
still building? Should have been
technical.
Oh, sorry. Here the output is
uh I did not save the output. Sorry,
that's the reason. Let me
redo the output. I was not saving the
output. So that part was missing. Yeah.
So this has got updated. So which
which has got refreshed
uh due to
app dot invoke method. Okay. So every
time you do the app do invoke or the
entire
agent is called once again the entire
agent state will refresh. All the fields
will get refreshed to the to capture the
new query and all the fields will also
get accordingly refreshed.
You can check the remaining.
So what are your business hours on
weekends? So again this is your general
query. Okay. So let's see the
conclusion. Defining specialized nodes
for different task. Routing function has
worked and we also have seen how to add
the condition. So this is the part which
can be a bit tricky. Okay. This also I
had to figure out the right way. But
that's okay. uh for these parts you can
actually take help of any of these LLMs
now okay so they will be able to give
you the conditional edge so you just
have to define what exactly you want to
the model and they will give you a code
to build so for example let's say you
want a similar thing okay so maybe you
can I'm just trying it completely
impromptu okay so let's say this is what
you want to make okay let's go to any
any gemin name or chart JPD. Okay. And
just paste this. Okay. So, give me a
line graph code to reproduce this
graph.
So, it should not be difficult these
days. Okay.
So, you might get even a simpler version
also. Quite possible. I haven't tried
that but only problem is these names
will be different which we have
initially used something else okay
because it does not know what to name so
here uh my agent state has been named as
uh agent state I sorry support state
that is a name typed it you can see but
the code is giving you a different name
called as graph state which is fine
which has the intent user query and a
response fine okay and then you have a
function called as router node I also
have a function called as router node.
Okay.
So query router node and then it is
returning
and then billing general and technical.
So three nodes are also there. I also
have those three nodes. I also have
those three nodes. Fine. And then define
a conditional routing logic. So this is
your routing function. So what is the
name of the routing function? Route
decision. So here my function is this
called as
router query router node. Okay. So this
is the function.
Okay. Which will return and then this is
your builder. So here also router to
router node, billing to billing node,
general query to general query node,
technical support to technical. So you
see this part is exactly the same. So
now I'm building the graph. You can see
this part is same. This is also the
same. This is the same. So those five
lines of code are exactly same. Okay.
Now you are adding a edge from start to
the router. We also have added start to
the router. Okay. See and then you have
a conditional uh logic. So from router
to router decision this part is also
same. You see from router to router
decision. Okay. Now this part is
slightly different depends on the
implementation. If you find this is more
you know easy to comprehend you can use
this because this is the logic probably
I have used in the next
uh notebook. So I haven't used the
lambda function in the next notebook. I
have actually used exactly the same
logic. Okay maybe I can just jump onto
that part. Okay I'll show you that. So
you see this works and then you add the
other three nodes. Here also I'm adding
the other three nodes. Okay. And finally
I'll compile. You also have compile.
Okay. And then finally you just have to
execute. Now this is just to visualize.
I also have that same code for
visualization.
See completely impromptu. And 90% of the
code is exactly same. So what I'm trying
to say is you have to know what you want
and if you can get some idea about uh or
if you can give the model some idea of
what you want you would be able to
reproduce most of the code exactly with
the right functionality.
So as a developer or as a decision maker
you have to understand what is the kind
of you know solution that you are
developing. So for what kind of
scenario? Okay. So if you think that
this is the kind of framework which you
will need I'll be having so many
projects just get that particular uh
graph component and give it to geminy or
charge GPT say that I want to implement
this in langraph. You don't have to even
start from scratch you see and still it
gives you everything although
I mean this notebook I had prepared one
and a half years ago but still very much
it works. Okay. Now the names exact
names will be slightly different because
again it cannot deduce those names from
here. Problem is it it cannot deduce the
names from here but it was able to
deduce the functionality. So I hope that
is clear.
Okay let me see there are questions.
Uh why don't you change the name of the
variables that you can do Santos once
you have understood you can customize
the code okay um provin is asking are
you assigning query to state like
departments
assigning query to state yes my state
has got two fields that's what I
mentioned my state has got two fields
one is query and one is the department
so this is the agent state which has got
two fields so here the query will be
updated the moment it the conversation
starts
And here the department will be updated
based on the router's decision.
Uh where is LLM model settings in your
generally generated code?
LLM model settings. It doesn't know what
model I'm going to use. Okay.
So
or how the router logic is to be used.
So you see this is simply pass. This is
simple pass. It has not done that
router. No. uh uh logic. So this is
where you would put it. So now you can
go back and say that I want to use a llm
which will read the so
so let's do if you want to do that okay
in the above router node function. Okay
I will be using an llm. Okay,
I'll be
reading the query
from the agent stage
and then
use an L lm to
classify the uh department
based on the query
and then Finally update the uh
department
field.
Say department field
the agent state. Okay.
Uh help me with the code.
Right. So you have to tell exactly what
you want.
So
yeah so that's what structured output
this is for structured output same thing
and now it will bind that super it is
binding that correct so you need see
once you know exactly what you want most
of the you know codes will automatically
fall through so I'm not just giving you
codes. I'm also teaching you how to
generate these kind of codes from
scratch. Is that really helpful? Yes. So
once you know exactly what is happening,
that is the learning you should take
from this overall exercise or overall
session. Okay. You should be able to
generate these level of code using these
models. Okay. Everything every time
don't think that someone will spoon feed
you. You have to learn fishing and
that's what we are doing here. You see?
So this is your router sorry this is
your uh schema that you are going to
force on the model. How do you force it
using the structured output? So you have
passed that schema only that my schema
name is slightly different. I think my
schema name is route query base model.
Here they have used um
route response base model. Same thing.
Okay. and department literal one of
these three so more or less same thing
department and uh it's not literal but
it will come from there only fine so now
it is going to initialize your llm uh
also you have passed the graph state you
can see and uh there is a system prompt
and uh this is your system prompt and
the human prompt exactly the same way
that I'm doing but in fact the kind of
output here I'm getting is a better. So
you see a much better system prompt. So
maybe I'll update my code.
Uh where is my system prompt here? Okay.
So
this is the system prompt I have got
from there
anyway. So it depends. Okay. But uh you
see so you update that system prompt
into the system and the query in the
human and that's what also we have done
okay query in the human part and system
prompt in the system part fantastic and
then next you are chaining your prompt
template with the structured alm exactly
your prompt with the structured llm see
it is as if literally it has seen my
code earlier and then you are reading
the user query and passing it to the
chain and invoking same thing only thing
is that reading part I have done
earlier. Okay, I think
and I am passing it. So I'm reading the
query and uh invoking simply see reading
and invoking and then updating return
department result. Departmentep
department exactly the same this is
stored as result in my case this is
stored as route. So route dot department
okay that is the router decision and
that route. department is stored within
the department part of your agent state.
Same thing is happening here. Okay.
Result dot department is stored in the
department of your agent state. So we
update the department. So the
conditional edge can see it. Now they
have updated the uh function router
function because now it's much more
clear to the model okay what exactly I
want. So it has given me a updated
version. And why is that needed? Because
earlier it did not have the department
um in the agent state. If you see the
earlier agent state did not have that
keyword department. Okay, it did not
have the department. Now after my query
came in that boss. Now you have to add
that. So it has added the department to
match the user request. So you must also
update the uh routing function and then
you can test it. Perfect. So that works.
Sus is asking why am I getting because
you're not saving that output man. Okay.
So unless you save it, the output will
still remain the same. Okay, make sure
that you save the output of the invoke.
So this is missing in your code. This is
missing in your code which is why you
are getting the same. Okay,
so
make sure that you are saving that
output. That output equal to was present
only in the first call. It was only
present in the first call. The other two
calls did not have output equal to. So
output was not getting updated. So you
are still printing the previous aent
state output.
Cool. So this is also done. Closed from
my side. Okay. Let me know if there are
any questions.
Yeah. Just stopping a screen share.
So, does this work? All good.
Okay.
Okay. So the next one uh we will take is
this actual implementation of that
agentic rag. Okay. So we created the
skeleton and now that skeleton will turn
into a real project.
Fine.
So
everything needed to execute in that
project is there in this code. So I'll
just share this
So this is very much similar uh agent
that we created uh using the drag and
drop interface everyone remember.
So that functionality is being
replicated. See
so what is that we are doing in this
project? will leverage the power of AI
agents and rag to build a customer
intelligent routing agent uh agentic rag
system sorry to handle customer support
queries using custom knowledge base okay
that is the main takeaway so router and
those things are going to be there and
just like
previous
uh we'll categorize the in query into
one of these whether it is a billing or
technical or general and we'll also
categorize the sentiment ment of the
query and based on the category and the
sentiment we'll do the routing. If the
sentiment is negative directly escalate
it to human and if the sentiment is
neutral or positive then based on the
query category update it sorry uh
forward it to one of these three agents.
Now these three agents are connected to
a vector database. So it will retrive
and respond based on the vector database
information. Right? So it will not
directly reply based on its you know LLM
knowledge. It will actually fetch the
knowledge or fetch the right context.
It will fetch the right context from
your knowledge base or vector database
and based on that it will give the final
response. So we are going to use the GPT
5.2 model and that's what I have also
updated in this. Okay.
So although somewhere here you can see 4
mentioned but uh I'll use GPT 5.2 or
we'll use GPT5 mini. Okay
just to save some bugs but that's okay.
So system will use this model to analyze
the user query and determine the query
category and the sentiment. So two
things are being determined okay back to
back and based on the query category and
sentiment uh the system will route to
one of these four cases. So escalate to
the human if the sentiment is negative.
You don't even have to read whether it
is billing response sorry billing query
or technical query or general query.
Okay. Immediately that is escalated for
human resolution.
And if
it is positive what is positive? If the
sentiment is positive or neutral then
queries related to billing are generated
by the billing agent
technical or the general. depending on
each of these there is a knowledge base
that we are going to do uh very much
similar to what we did a couple of weeks
ago okay and then there is escalation
mechanism so negative triggers this I
have already explained anyway so let's
install
um these are known names chroma because
we are going to create a vector database
so that also we'll need open AI key uh
te is not needed you can delete this
code okay that is not needed after
chroma It might ask you to restart the
kernel. So don't forget to do that
wherever or wherever or whenever it is
asking to restart. There are few
packages which will ask the collab to
restart.
So I normally suggest not to club this
installation in the main.
So any queries any questions in the chat
in the meantime the installations are
going on. I can take
So do we need to use oops concepts for
these kind of project because I see
everything is
in Python.
Yes, oops will be needed because as you
already see the codes do have classes
somewhere. Okay.
uh but this is just you know a simple
implementation you don't need a very
high level of oops okay but definitely
some understanding of the oops will be
helpful I would say
more than that understanding of what
problem we are solving how we are
solving why we are solving is more
important because all these codes are
anyway coming from these models I'm just
going to connect them understand and I'm
already giving you enough code base to
give you the entire flow. So you can
understand the overall flow and
everything from here and get all those
codes generated from the models. I
prefer to use Germany because it doesn't
give me complicated codes. Okay, if I
give the same query to uh let's say
claude, okay, Claude is definitely not
for beginners. I'm warning you. Okay,
cloud is only for advanced coders.
Okay, charge GPT is much much more
helpful if you want to do creative
writing. I don't trust
uh charge GPT for coding exercises. It
gives tends to give lot of deprecated
codes. That is my observation. Okay. So
I don't have a very good uh opinion
about the code quality coming from uh
charge GPT but but but but
but
charge GPT is extremely good in
explaining codes. So if you got the
codes from somewhere
upload the uh notebook to charge GPT and
ask it to explain line by line. charge
will do the best out of all these three.
So code explanations can be done by
charge very nicely. But if you ask it to
write down a code for you, uh I have
reservations for that. Now these are my
personal observations. I'm saying okay.
So I've seen that the code quality
coming from Germany is far better uh
than GPT. The best code quality you will
get it from cloud models. But again the
cloud models will tend to over
complicate over do overengineer
uh your requirement. Your requirement
was to you know
uh create a small
code block it will literally create the
entire project for you end to end. So it
overdoers. So that's one problem with
cloud. Okay. So somewhere in my uh
claude system prompt I have even
mentioned. So Claude is so you know
eager to give Python codes that I have
in my I'll show you mean this is
something
in my system prompt I have even written
this which is very funny. I'll show you
in the settings
you see here.
So I have seen that Claude unnecessarily
tries to give code every other time even
without asking.
Okay. So
and again
So sometimes I want to avoid this. Okay.
Fine. So I think the installations are
done. You can run this code that will
download all the documents. So it will
download this JSON file and just check
it here.
This JSON file. Okay.
And again this is not needed. So don't
run this. Okay. This is not needed
unless you want to read that uh JSON
file from your Google drive. Okay. So
fine. So this is how your JSON file is.
It is a pair of question answer pairs.
You can see question answer
and in the metadata also there is a
category mentioned technical or
something like that.
So what type of query it is that is also
there. So I can help sorry I can use
this
I can use this
information. Okay.
To make the data uh vector database
search
easier or faster I would say. Okay.
So kind of metadata filtering we can do
because my metadata already has the
category. Okay. So we can do a metadata
filtering instead of searching into 150
documents. The total number of documents
is indeed actually in this case 150. So
instead of searching into 150 documents,
there are 50 documents for technical, 50
for billing, 50 for general. So my
search space gets you know uh limited.
So I'm not searching all the 150
documents. I'm just searching for 50
documents because of the metadata
filtering that I can implement. So that
is the whole idea behind keeping the
metadata information.
So these are the last three entries.
These were the first three entries and
these are the last three entries.
Okay,
I'm going to add some uh so basically
now these are what these are uh normal
list of dictionaries. It's a list of
dictionaries. So now I have to do a
proper document injection. So each of
this dictionary that you see has to
become a lenient document and that is
what we are doing here. So I'm reading
each document from that knowledge base.
Currently a knowledge base is a list. So
I'm iterating for all the documents
within that list. So when you iterate
each document is actually a dictionary
from here to here it's a dictionary.
Okay. And from that dictionary I am
pulling out the metadata and the text
and creating a proper lchain document.
Okay.
Huh.
Okay. So, one by one you are reading
each of these uh dictionaries and uh you
are updating the metadata and the data
part of the lang chain document and you
are converting that into a langchain
document and appending into your process
documents. So ultimately your process
documents will be a list of lang chain
documents. Right now it is a list of
dictionaries. Finally at the end it will
become a list of lang documents. So that
is the net outcome of this Python code.
Okay. What has happened here? No module
namechain.
Okay.
What has happened? Excuse the error.
What changed?
We just had one version of this running.
Okay, we had used I remember now
specific versions.
So this is the same lab we had done into
interact system.
Okay. Okay. Let's see if this workound
doesn't work then we'll go back and
uh it has become lang correct
let's see
ah that worked so this is the
only change you have to make in your
code I hope that works later on
so if that is giving an error
Okay, that works.
H uh there is a
query in the chat. Since there are
multiple technical query document in
your list, lchain will create multiple
line chain documents for technical. Yes.
So not just for technical for all three.
So you can now see that it is ultimately
a list. You can see it's a list and list
of what langchain documents. So the data
type is a langchain document. Lchain
document number one. Lchain document
number two. Lchain document number
three. So advantage with the lang chain
document is you have a proper metadata.
Now now this is the same metadata that
will be needed by the vector database.
Right? Now this metadata was just as a
field in your dictionary
because the data type was a dictionary
within a list right but now it is a
proper lang chain document with metadata
and the content. So the embeddings will
be generated for the page content part.
This contains the raw content. Okay,
which will also undergo your uh uh
chunking. Okay, so the chunking is done
for the page content part. Now anyway,
this content part is small. So uh most
likely each this is not going to get
divided into further chunk. So each page
content will become one chunk more or
less. Okay. So let's create the vector
database. Now
I'm using the text embedding three small
model.
If there is a vector database already
existing, you can remove it.
So yeah, these are the names which we
already know. Name of the collection,
name of the vector database. We are
going to go with cosign similarity and
yeah
setting the vector database as
retriever. We are going to retrieve the
top three documents and some similarity
score threshold I have given as 0.2. So
if any of the three document that you
have retrived has a similarity score
lower than 0.2 that will not be used for
response generation. Let me repeat this.
You are anyway retrieving the top three
documents but let's say the third
document that you have retrived has a
score of similarity score of 0.15 which
is lower than the threshold that
document will not be given to the model
for response generation. So I can do
another level of filtering amongst the
top retrieved documents.
Okay.
So now let's uh test our retriever.
Okay. This is like testing the retriever
right away. So what is the refund policy
and you are putting a metadata filter.
That's what exactly I told you at the
start. Okay. We are going to implement a
metadata filter. So here the category is
general. So where is this going to come
later? This is going to come from the
model. Right now I have not plugged in
the model. The only model that I have
here is the embedding model. Okay. The
only model that I have here is the
embedding model. Okay. My response
generation model my actual brain of the
agent is not yet there. So that is going
to come up later. So this metadata
filter category general will be actually
the output from the model. Right now
I'm specifying it up front that I
believe that this is a refund policy is
basically a general query. Okay. So this
is the input given to me sorry given by
me. Now based on that metadata filter
okay I'm asking the knowledgebased
search to be invoked with this user
query. So what this does is it will not
search all the 150 documents.
Okay. Uh how do you know 150 documents?
You can just see the
code processed docs. See the length of
the processed docs.
Okay.
So even your knowledge base. So it's not
150. It's a smaller version which I'm
using here. things there was a separate
one but okay it's good to know that how
many documents are there we should have
it
yeah so total 30 we have okay no worries
so we can make it
uh you know better this is more like a
smaller project because we didn't have
to go for very extensive number of
tokens because more knowledge base means
more tokens also which is what I wanted
to initially avoid Okay. Ah fine. So we
have 30 documents essentially, right?
So this works and uh category general.
Now is this working? Yes, this is
working because I was able to retrive
the top three documents based on the
user query. So what is the user query?
What is the refund policy? So the first
document, what is the refund policy?
Then what is your policy for handling
damaged deliveries? Yes, also relevant.
what is your shipping policy? So it
still has the keywords like policy,
policy. So pro probably from there it is
making some similarity but this is also
having or talking about some policy.
This is also talking about some policy
and this is anyway a direct match and
because of that you can also
see the scores. So right now I'm not
printing the scores but we can also
print the scores. Okay.
Now the problem is if you provide the
filter which has the category name
misspelled.
So here it's still general but G is
capital. Remember in your metadata
all the category names are small.
Remember all the category names are
small. So here the only problem is I
have misspelled the category name.
And if I do that because of the filter
you are applying
what is happening is your knowledge base
thinks that there is another metadata
uh sorry another set of documents with
general capital General as the category
but we know that there is no capital
General as the category in your set of
documents. we have small G general as
the category not capital and so nothing
was retrieved. So this is the tricky
part. So this means that when you are
getting these category names generated
from the model you have to enforce the
model to exactly give the same name
including the case. So case match has to
be there and that
unfortunately the case match cannot be
done using a pyantic schema. So you'll
have to implement uh a second level of
validation. Okay, let me repeat what I
said. Pantic schema will do a type
matching or type validation.
If it is a string with a small or caps
that cannot be you know enforced or that
cannot be validated easily.
So we'll need to implement a manual
method to you know get
that done. I'll show you how it will be.
Okay. So another example here. This is
completely a wrong uh category name. So
this is the problem. If you use some
cheap open-source model which is giving
you a wrong category name you may not
even retrieve anything.
So the whole point of implementing the
metadata filter is I don't want to
search into thousands of documents. I I
I want to only search into relevant set
of documents. So that narrowing down is
being implemented using the metadata
filter.
Okay. and the filter values are
populated by a model that will be
populated by the model. So if the model
is populating a wrong
category name then that's where again
the failure mode is present. Okay. So
you have to make sure that you are using
a decent model so that model does not
hallucinate the category name. Okay. So
a decent model means a decent reasoning
thinking model. Fine.
So that might even lead to think that
there is no relevant information but
that is wrong. That is wrong. So there
is relevant information. We know it
right. But just because the metadata
filter was not being returned properly.
Okay. Uh
we are not able to retrive any relevant
set of documents.
Fine.
Okay. Now define a customer inquiry
state. So this is my final state agent
state you can say. This is my final
agent state which has customer query,
category, sentiment and the final
response of the model. Okay. So all four
things added and all four are going to
be strings. Okay. And your query
category uh this is the uh pyantic
schema you can say which you are going
to force to the structured output for
the model. So model will select one of
these three values. Similarly, this is
the pyantic schema which you are going
to use for sentiment analysis. Okay. So,
model will select one of these three.
Now, we are going to create all these
node functions one by one. Uh you can
use this model chart GPT 40 mini. Okay,
don't change. Let's use the same doesn't
matter.
So, but uh you want to be deterministic
and grounded. So, make sure the
temperature is set to zero. Okay. So now
this is the function which is going to
be used by your
node. Which node? The node which is
going to categorize the enquiry. So this
is a function which will go into the
query categorization node. Remember
that.
Okay, sorry.
So this block which we initially
planned. So what is the so just assume
that this is one of the nodes. So what
is the node function going to execute
within this block? And that is what I'm
showing you now. So this is the node
function. Okay. Uh so it is first
reading the query from the state. Fine.
And now I'm creating a prompt. This
prompt says that act as a customer
support agent trying to best categorize
the customer query. Um I've given some
more idea about that. And your job is to
categorize into one of these three.
Technical query means what? General
query means what? Billing queries means
what? So it's a good idea to give more
context about the kind of queries based
on your use case and what the company
does
and then finally you also share the
customer query as a variable. So you
will need some sort of uh way to pass
the customer query into this prompt
template. So this is your entire string.
Okay. And uh dot format you can use to
pass the customer query into that prompt
template or you can use the f strings
also that is also fine.
So dot format is a method by which you
can actually update the value of the
variable. In this case the only variable
is your customer query. Right? So you
have used a customer query and your
customer query is being read from the
agent state. So you are passing that
query into the prompt template using
this dot format. So that becomes your
prompt including your customer query.
Now that prompt including the customer
query is given to the model. Okay. For
the final response
generation. Okay. But this model is also
constrained using that structured output
pentic schema. Okay. So this pyic schema
has a clear thing that okay it has to be
one of these three values. Okay literal
means the model will be forced to pick
one of those three. So whatever topic it
is picking it will update in the route
category dot categorize topic. How does
it know that I have to use a categorized
topic as a field name that is again
coming from your pentic schema here. So
categorize topic is the field name that
it is going to update in the response.
So what is the response called? Response
is called as route category. In that
response there will be a field by the
name as categorized topic and that is
coming from your query category schema.
So this is clearly mentioned within that
schema.
Right? So once you get the query
category I'm also updating the agent
state. So this is where the agent state
is getting updated. Okay. So let's run
this. And now a actual API call is being
made. Okay, remember this is the first
time a API call will be made here.
Okay, so this is coming from your model
actually. So model is predicting that
this question
relates to a technical query. Model is
saying that this question relates to a
general query. Okay. Now model says that
this is related to a billing query.
Perfect. So works. Now very similarly
this is the node function going to be
used in the sentiment analysis node.
Okay. So again I'm reading the customer
query from your agent state. Again a
similar sentiment category prompt. So
I'm asking the model to read the
customer query below. Analyze the
sentiment. And you have to choose one of
these three. So here there although
there is a clear instruction okay just
return the sentiment one of the above
but still the model may hallucinate and
try to give you some additional header
and footer here is the sentiment for the
user query or something like that or as
per my understanding this is the uh
sentiment for the given customer query
so I don't want any of those uh you know
additional text
okay so some cheap models may still
hallucinate those additional text they
may not be able to follow the
instructions properly. Okay. So that is
the reason you have to enforce a pyantic
schema once again. So here the pyantic
schema that I am enforcing for the model
to give a structured output is this
query sentiment which has a field name
called a sentiment. We have seen has got
a field name here called a sentiment. So
this is the field name sentiment which
will be updated.
Okay.
Now let's check if this node function is
working. So you see the steps here. I'm
not directly building the graph.
Building the graph is the end part. You
have to test each and every granular
component. So first you have to plan
your graph on the sketch of paper.
Plan the graph means you have to write
down in your sketch of paper okay paper
sketch that these are the nodes which
I'm going to build these are the edges
these are the connections and then for
each of those nodes that you are
planning okay you have to create a node
function so what I have right now tested
is the node function that I'm going to
use in those nodes so you have to first
create the node function test that these
node functions are working exactly as
expected and then you join the node
function or you know you combine the
node function with the actual node.
Okay.
So now there are three more node
functions. Which three? Because now if I
go back to the plan here, this is my
plan. Okay. So there I'll need three
more node functions. One for uh this.
Okay. one for this, one for this and one
for this. Okay, so again at these three
places I'm going to use uh models okay
for the response generation. So here
also I'm going to ultimately these are
what agents and agents are nodes in this
case. Okay, so these are node agents or
agentic nodes. These are LLM nodes.
There is a concept called as LLM node
because there are no tools involved. So
this is a LLM node. You can very well
call it as a LLM node which is very
technically correct. Whereas these three
are agentic nodes. These are agentic
nodes.
The difference between LLM node is uh it
just has LLM and no tools. No tools. No
tools being used. Okay. Whereas in the
agentic node you will have the prompt as
you also have the prompt in this plus
the LLM plus the tools. Which tool? Tool
is your vector database.
So that's why it's a aentic node.
So I'll give a pause here. Let me know
if you have understood till this point.
So now that we have already planned
three agentic nodes, I'll still need
three
node functions. I'll need one node
function for the billing response, one
node function for
one node function for technical response
and one node function for general
response. Clear?
So there is a comment here. In the
latest explanation, you use LLM to
decide.
Yeah, I think we can take a break. Yes.
Um, LLM to decide a category and not use
the knowledge based document. Nearly.
Yes. You don't need a knowledge base to
decide the category.
We will use the knowledge base to
generate the response to retrive the
right chunk based on the category. So
that category will be used for metadata
filtering. Okay. This this okay this
query category which is generated from
here that will be used as filter. So
vector database search will still happen
but after metadata filtering. So it is
not going to search all 30. Okay, it is
going to search only those 10 documents
which have uh category as general or
category as billing or category as uh
technical. Clear?
Yes. The knowledge base will be used in
the agentic node. Correct.
Yeah,
fine. So, how to use it? Again, you can
use it as a tool. You may not use it as
a tool. That is also fine. Here in this
example, I'm not using it as a tool. But
essence is still the same. Okay, it is
still being used as a tool, but not
literally as a tool. literally means I'm
not using the tool wrapper from line
chain but still it is a tool anything
over and above the model is a tool
ultimately okay so you can see all these
things are there we are using that
metadata retrieving and then you are
populating so we'll discuss anyway after
the break but uh I think
let me see if there are any questions
Okay, all good.
Okay,
back.
So fine
let's create these uh agent functions
now uh agent node functions.
So this is for generating the technical
response. So first thing is we are
importing the support state once again.
So importing this by this name you can
say this is a name that I'm mapping and
so I'm referring to the actual customer
support state by this name local name
not needed but it's a good practice
and so the output is also mapped back to
the customer support state. So you're
not just reading but also writing it
back to that. Okay.
Uh so this provides a technical support
response by combining knowledge from the
vector store and LLM.
So I'm reading the
customer query
uh category from the agent state
customer query again and then simply
using a metadata filter here. So if this
categorized topic is
in a different case let's say if t is
capital then you are comparing by making
it in a lower case. Okay, of t is
capital or the entire thing is capital.
Whatever be the original case returned
by the model, whatever be the original
case, see this value is being returned
by the model and updated in the support
state. Okay, so we are reading the value
from the support state. So whatever was
returned here, you can see whatever was
returned here. Okay, even though we have
asked it to you know format in a proper
way but still worst case scenario is
still the model hallucinated and
returned it in a different case.
So first thing is I'm lowering the case
so that I can match with technical in
the lower case and if the case matches
that means the query has come down to
the right agent
the right agent because what is this
node for? This node is for generating
the technical response. So first thing
is you should check whether the query is
indeed technical in nature. If not then
it goes to the else condition. Apologies
I was not able to answer this question.
Please reach out to something something.
So for nontechnical queries this is a
default response handling as of now. You
can make it better but for now this is
what it is.
So let's say if the query is indeed
technical then I'm setting the metadata
uh filter to technical and then doing a
database search. uh so this will have
the relevant documents top three
documents uh as a list using this code
I'm joining those three documents
between two empty spaces using two empty
spaces I'm joining these three documents
okay so this is a retrived content and
that retrived content will be updated in
this prompt template okay so this is a
prompt template which will go to the
response generation model craft a clear
and detailed technical response for the
following Customer query use the
provided knowledge based information to
enrich your response. In case there is
no knowledge based information. When
will it get no knowledge based
information? So this could be empty.
This could be empty or you do not know
the answer just say that apologies I was
not able to answer your question. Please
reach out to this and this is a
customer. So this prompt template has
got two variables. One is the customer
query and one is the retrive content
which I have to update. So that prompt
template is now chained to the LLM and
uh while you are invoking you can see
the dictionary here. So I'm mapping the
variables. So one variable is coming
from the query which you are retrieving
from the state and the other variable
value is coming from the retrive content
which you are getting it from the
retriever and then formatting it later.
So these two values are
updated in this dictionary and that
dictionary is given to the chain.invoke
method. Once the chain do.invoke method
makes the API call that response will
have content. So I'm just pulling the
content part of the response. Dot
content means I'm pulling the content
part of the AI response. That content
part contains the AI message only.
And that AI message is updated in the
technical reply. So I'm just extracting
the AI message component of the overall
response structure. The overall response
structure has all the information about
uh response ID, run ID, model use, token
usage and number of other things are
there. So I'm not interested in all of
that information. I'm just interested in
the AI message part and that is what I'm
extracting by using the dot content. So
that technical reply is now also updated
in the final response part of your agent
state.
Final response part of the agent state.
Okay.
So any questions in this logic.
Okay. So then similarly let's execute
this and check whether this works.
Okay. So customer query what is the
refined policy? I have given a general.
Now here the problem is G is capital N
that is why this was expected.
Okay.
Is it
query category? No no no that is fine.
What is a refund policy? Should be
billing I think.
Yeah. Let's see another case.
Oh, sorry. Sorry. The function is
technical response. So, it will only
reply the technical queries. Correct. So
the general is correct map to
the general is the correct mapping to
the refund policy question that so query
category is correct. Okay. The problem
is you are firing this query to the
wrong agent.
This is the one which is only going to
reply to technical. Now you see when it
is being fired a technical query is
fired to a technical agent then the
response
you can see very nicely it comes up. You
see the final response very nicely it
comes up
fine. So thank you for inquiring
regarding this model onpre support. Yes
we do support on-prem model of our this
allows you to run this this this and so
on. Very nice. Okay. So you can actually
also save this output. Okay. And uh if
you want I mean
and you can also
extract the final response part of that
output and print and see
output
response.
Okay.
And uh there you can use the print
display. So there was a display function
I think somewhere.
Let me go back and use the display
function.
Yeah, this one.
Display and then mark down. Okay.
Oh,
let's play
markdown.
Mark down is not there. It is small or
what?
Correct.
Yeah. So you see I get a proper response
now.
Okay. Similarly you can uh check the
other two more agents. So the only
difference is the
uh line where I'm checking for the
filter and the second line where I'm
applying the filter.
Third change is place where I'm giving
this statement. Okay, rest all are same.
Rest all are same. Okay, so this is a
billing reply.
So these are the three changes I'm
doing. Okay. So similarly if you want to
update and display
okay thanks. This is the response.
Okay,
question in the chat we suppose pass
state object as input to the agent node
function but you simple unit test case
execution you pass two strings variable
how does it map to the state object
but in your sample no no no no no
where is the thing.
This is what you're saying
to string variables
35.
Where is this one? 35.
Okay. So in this you can just tell me
line 35
here. No
this one
no. So the thing is you are mapping the
okay so the where are these two
variables going? These are not going to
the state
directly.
Okay, these are going to your
Okay.
Where is that coming from?
So here here
customer query. So this is a customer
query and the other is a query category
and the query category is
for yeah so these two okay correct
H so what was the question now let me
just check
uh unit test case you are passing two
string variable how does it map to the
state okay So basically this is
expecting a input uh which is your
customer support only. Okay. This this
customer support state and instead of
the customer support state what you are
mapping is a dictionary. Where are you
using the dictionary? You are using this
dictionary to read at this point. Okay.
And ultimately
this is a type dictionary only. If you
see this the data type is a type
dictionary.
Can you see it's a dictionary only and
so the output sorry the input that you
have given is a see this is a type
dictionary it's just that since it is a
dictionary the input that you are giving
is also a dictionary. So that is where
the dictionary mapping happens because
of the keys being same. If the key
mismatch is happening then there will be
a problem. So there is a key with this
name. There is a key with this name. The
input that you are giving is not a
normal list. It is a dictionary already.
And the agent state is also a type
dictionary. Aa got it. Thanks. Okay.
Fine.
But yeah, relevant question. So now this
is the note function for the escalation.
This is just a dummy function which will
give a response as apologies. I uh
cannot respond it right now and someone
from the team will be reaching out
shortly. So this is like a dummy
function. This is not making any API
call as such. This is a router. So
router is just checking all the
conditions that we have already
discussed. I think this is quite simple
to understand.
So you are checking the state in those
agents just to make sure it does not
hallucinate the issue. Yeah, right now
that's exactly what we are doing. So I
am providing those states right now.
Okay, the state variables. I am
providing the state variables right now
for a uh for a you can say
test for a test now once we build the
entire graph see the node functions have
to be tested out of the graph that's
what I mentioned half an hour ago also
so each node
will be requiring a function okay so
that the control goes to the node the
node executes means the function
executes But you have to test the
function thoroughly
before you plug in that function into
the graph. So this is where I'm going to
plug all those functions because once
you plug in it will be very difficult to
identify where is the error coming from.
You getting my point? Okay. So it's very
important to test each of these
functions individually before you plug
all these things. So now you are going
to build the entire workflow. Okay. So
here
again you're starting from an empty
graph and then you are adding these five
nodes six nodes. So one for categorizing
the enquiry, one for analyzing the
sentiment, these are the three response
generators and one is for escalation. So
all the boxes are generated here. Okay.
So these are the functions which I'm
mapping to each of these nodes and these
are the name of the nodes.
So this is the name of the node. This is
the node function. Name of the node,
node function. So usually it's a common
practice to keep the name of the node
same as the node functions to avoid you
know uh discrepancy or you know getting
confused. Okay. So if the name of the
node is categorized in query normally I
would expect that there is a python
function exactly by the same name where
the functionality of the node is coded.
Okay. So I have added all the nodes. Now
connecting the edges. So the entry point
you are setting the entry point here.
Setting the entry point at the
categorized inquiry. Okay. So the start
will get connected to categorize
inquiry. Now the categorized enquiry
will get connected to show you.
So entry point. So start will be
connected to categorize inquiry. Now
this categorize and query come to this
line number 16. So categorize and query
will be connected to sentiment. Now
sentiment will be connected to router.
Okay. Router will have these four
branches. Router will have four
branches. 1 2 3 4. And each of those
four branches are connected to end.
Each of those branches are connected to
end. That's how it goes. So this has got
four branches.
Okay. And these four branches are
connected to the end.
One additional thing that you see here
is um memory saver. Okay. So now you are
adding memory also. So now uh check
pointer equal to memory. So when you
compile this graph, okay, it will
maintain the conversation history as
well. Okay. So that is one additional
improvement I have done here. So let's
execute this.
Okay.
So Pravin is saying you are checking the
state category indoors just to make sure
it does not. Yes, Acha that I have
already answered I think. Perfect. So
this is the how the overall uh looks and
once again let me reiterate the solid
edges means it's a deterministic path in
the workflow that it will execute
exactly the way you see it. Uh dotted
ones means one of these will execute
because they are coming from the same
hierarchy. So one of the four will
execute. Which one you don't know
because that will be based on the query
uh category and the sentiment. But any
of these four executes finally it will
go to the end. Let me know if this is
very clear the overall flow before I go
ahead. Yeah. Can I get some response in
the chat if this overall flow is very
clear?
So we have you know built upon this step
by step. If I had directly jumped onto
this project that would have been very
difficult because you know there are too
many things happening lot of nodes are
there lot of edges are there router is
there and so that's why we built on it
systematically okay so we did two
langraph notebooks as a primer and then
we are building the project step by step
okay so if this is clear then uh we Then
what happened?
This is not output. This is
okay. So helper function to run the
flow. Now I'm going to wrap this entire
workflow. What is the workflow here?
This is your workflow. customer support
graph. I'm going to wrap this into a
proper
application you can say a final agent.
So in our definition now this entire
workflow whatever is one agent or if you
want you can call these guys also as
individual agents. It's up to you. Okay.
Because these are actually also fetching
knowledge. So they are you know equipped
with tools. So since these guys are
equipped with tools it is
fair to call them as agents or if you
want to call them as sub agents that's
also fine. Okay. And this entire thing
becomes a single agent which is what I'm
calling. So this is your final agent
which is wrapping this entire workflow.
This entire langraph graph
is being wrapped within this function.
That's a usual practice. Okay. So later
on you will not be directly calling this
graph. you'll actually be calling this
function. Okay, that will take your uh
so what are the inputs? Agent is your
entire uh graph. Prompt is the user
prompt. Session user session ID. Now
this is where the real game starts.
Okay. Now I can provide different user
names. let's say Prashant and then you
have Pravin you have Pander Rajan you
have other uh you know Karthik or
maybe Reuka Santos so whatever user
session id then verbose is false now
what is this verbose going to do so each
step of the agent execution will be
printed if you make verbose equal to
true
if you make verbose equal to true then
each step of the workflow execution each
node execution will be printed in the
console. If you want that print then
make verbose equal to true. Okay. So let
me repeat this agent is nothing but your
entire langraph graph
prompt is your user query initial
conversation starter that is okay then
this will keep a track. So Prashant's
queries will be tracked separately.
Pravin's query will be tracked
separately. And that is what this memory
agent does. This memory component does
sorry this memory component keeps
tracking the user ids. So Prashant will
have a different user ID, Pravin will
have a user different user ID and their
conversations will be different. So they
will not be you know mixed up. Okay. How
is that maintained? That is maintained
by creating different threads.
Okay. So first you create a agent stream
and then in that you provide the initial
prompt. Configurable is the thread ID.
So this thread ID persists okay for a
given user ID the thread ID persists and
based on this thread ID conversations
can be continued at a later stage okay
without mixing up. So I'll show you
that.
So this is just printing and for event
and event. So that's what I said for
each event what is a event is a node
execution. So if the node executes I'm
just printing the response of that uh
node printing the response of that node.
Okay. So this way every update in your
state happens will be printed. So what
is printed and what is the event? event
is nothing but every single
update into the agent state
is an event. Remember this.
Okay. So each of these event is printed.
So entire thread will be printed. Okay.
Let's see. And finally once the entire
workflow is done I'll print the final
response. Where is this final response
coming from? Agent state. So that's what
I said event is all coming from the
agent state. Okay. And so this final
response is also a part of that agent
state.
Okay. Now let's see. So these are the
you know items in my knowledge base.
These are the 30 question answer pairs.
That is what I have printed.
Okay. Let's say this is
pashant 007.
Okay. Do we support pre-trained models?
Okay.
So the agent is running. You can see
currently the agent state was empty. So
the first thing which got updated was
the customer query. Then the control
went to whom? The control went to the
categorize query node and so this was
updated. Then the control went to the
sentiment analyzer uh node and so the
sentiment was updated and then based on
the technical and neutral which node was
executed the technical response
generator node was executed. So this is
the final response coming from the
technical response generator node. So
I'm just printing that final response
here. Thank you for inquiring regarding
pre-trained models. Okay. Now the beauty
is let me just try let me just try
I'm just going to copy this
and I'm not going to change the user ID.
Okay, the user ID still remains the same
or if you want you can still provide the
same user ID as long as the user ID is
same it is not going to create a new
one. Okay. So, let me see
what did I just ask. Okay. Let's see
what happens.
Does this maintain conversation history?
Al although you have not
created a specific mechanism but let's
see if it is still able to track the
conversation history. Okay.
So you see
it was not able to retrieve any
documents and the
model as such does not have any idea
and that is the reason.
So this is what I have been telling you
since start okay agent state is not same
as your proper memory component. This
memory component that we have right now
implemented is only to create separate
threads for different conversations
which will be initiated by different
users. Let's say there is one user
called as Prashan 007. There is another
user called as let's say Jim 009
whatever. Okay. So their conversations
will be tracked separately but as of now
they are not being also saved. You can
say they are saved in the agent state.
Okay, fine. But they are not being
passed. Those conversations, the
previous conversations are still not
being passed to the model. So the model
still has no idea. See, this is still
working. You can see I'll show you. I'll
show you. So
look at this very very carefully. Okay.
Okay. Look at this very very carefully.
So what is the last state here? Customer
query is do you support pretend model.
Customer query is technical. Okay. This
is neutral. Okay. Now you see here it
started with only customer query and
these guys were getting populated one by
one. But here when it started the when
did the agent start? When the agent
started here what happened? It's not
starting from clean slate. Remember this
time
this time the agent does not start from
clean slate or rather state.
Okay, it is already carrying the
previous information which is why you
you can see only the customer query was
updated but the remaining other three
things are coming from the previous
state. You see
and one by one these fields will be
updated. So customer category sorry
query category will be updated from
technical to general but the sentiment
is still the same and the response is
still the same. In the next node when
the flow goes to the next node. So these
are getting overritten. Okay. These are
getting overwritten because you did not
implement a reducer. Remember that there
was no reducer in any of these. Okay. So
that is why these fields are getting
overwritten. That is why these fields
are getting overwritten. But these
fields do exist in the second execution.
In the previous notebooks, we have seen
that whenever you call that graph or
whenever you invoke that graph,
the entire agent state is refreshed.
That's what I repeated several times.
But now the agent state is not coming
from the refreshed state or a clean
slate. Okay? It is already
preserving the previous execution state.
Is that statement clear everyone? Yes.
No. It is already having the previous
state execution or previous execution
states. And one by one as the nodes the
second time execution nodes are
executing they are
updating the corresponding
they're updating the corresponding
fields in the agent state.
So each time I run with the same user ID
it will not start from scratch. It will
start from the previous execution. It
will preserve the previous agent state
and only keep on updating the fields.
But this is memory efficient. Okay, this
is memory efficient because the agent
state doesn't have to be created again
in the memory stack. It is already
there. It just has to update the states
these fields essentially. Okay. So
finally, so you see this is the previous
response. This is all our previous
response. And now finally the response
got updated in the last step
and that response is also mentioned. But
the moment you aa here also I'm not
changing the user ID. So let me execute
this again.
Okay. So here also I'm not changing. So
what was the previous thing? General,
neutral and apologies. You can see it
started from general, neutral and
apologies. And only thing that got
updated in the first node was the
invoice I mean the query part. Then in
the second step the category gets
updated. Then in the third sentiment
gets updated which is again neutral. And
then again in the next step the response
gets updated. You see now let me change
the user ID here. Okay. Let me change
the user ID.
Instead of pashan 007
let me use a user ID. Let's say Santos
009.
Now let's see what happens. Okay.
Oh, so here the verbose was false. So my
bad. Let's make it true. See the verbose
was false and that is the reason I'm
only directly getting the final
response. Let me restart. So instead of
009 let me make it 007. So that will
create another thread and let's see now
you see each step execution here. This
starts exactly fresh and that is the
reason it does not have the category and
the sentiment and the final response
when when this agent started. So this is
a separate agent which is tracking
Santosh. There was a separate agent
which is tracking Prashant
right so Prashant's agent is not being
used to answer Santo query is this clear
everyone till here till here at least
and now since I'm not changing the user
ID so this will be again taking uh
so this is directly your uh faulty I am
fed up so this is a negative sentiment.
So it directly went for escalation.
Okay.
Yeah. So I think uh everyone understood
the concept now. There's nothing more to
explain in this notebook.
Okay. Okay. Okay. Let's see if there are
questions.
So now the history of conversation that
is the only thing which is remaining.
Okay. So now 50% of the problem is
solved. So now my agent can handle
hundreds of users simultaneously but the
conversation history is still not being
maintained. That's the only problem that
we are yet to solve. Is this clear? My
agent single agent whatever I have
created that chatbot is able to keep a
track of multiple queries from multiple
users simultaneously.
But the conversation history is not
being shared with the model. So
follow-up conversations are not working.
That is the only thing which is a
problem. the follow-up conversation is
not working. So, we'll see how to, you
know, fix that part.
Um,
Peran is saying, "Yes, clear. We need to
clear state for any new query may not be
because if it is coming from the same
user, ideally you want to preserve the
state.
So problem with
clearing the state is or you know
starting a fresh is each time it will be
a memory overload or overhead. Okay.
Then a previous agent state will be
discarded and a new agent state gets
created in a new thread. So that is like
a you know processor overload overhead
sorry. But if you're reusing the same
agent state for the same customer,
that's much more efficient. Then the
subsequent interactions become faster.
Okay.
So what is the strategy to do the
follow-up? Huh? So for that you need to
pass the conversations also to the model
that we will see in a later notebook.
Okay. Not today but in the later
notebooks we will be doing a full
conversational chatbot. Okay. which will
not only have the capability to you know
keep a track of different users but also
the conversations. Okay, I will show you
Okay. Uh this is done.
So let me save this. So in case you want
to refresh it to get the latest version,
you can now do it after saving
successfully. Yeah. Done.
How do you want to maintain this
session? How to invalidate users? Uh
again,
so
you are mixing this with application
layer sessions.
Okay, this is just the agent state. Now
agent state is different from the user
session. Once the user is logged in,
there will be a session variable which
will be tracked by your application
layer. Whether you create it using
chainl streaml there will be a front end
that front end is where the user
authentication happens and let's say in
streamllet if you're creating the user
interface using streamllet
streamlit creates a session variable
okay so there you can provide the
session timeout
now that is the session timeout for the
entire
session that the user is having in the
platform
okay so Here the assumption is as long
as the user's session is active on the
platform
the agent state will remain.
We are not going to invalidate the agent
state in between. I mean that makes
still no sense if the user is still
logged in. Okay. So user session
maintaining is a different concept than
this agent state maintaining.
Okay. So I think that got cleared.
Okay. So, what is the next one? Let me
just bring up the next one.
How much time we have? Half an hour.
Okay, we'll build one more agent which
is a
which is going to follow uh
reflective pattern. Okay, I'll just show
you
what is the agent we are building.
Okay. So this is the
one which I had shared in the design
patterns. Right. So we now know what all
patterns we know the react pattern tool
use. We have done in this one in the uh
project uh the lab three
tool use also we have seen the lab one
which is online chain
react pattern yeah then conversation
memory so this also we have we are going
to use so to some extent memory saver we
have used uh SQLite saver we'll be using
so this is going to come up okay
um router pattern we have used So this
is what we have just now used
reflection selfcorrection pattern. So
this is the one which we are going to
use in the current project lab number
five. Okay, let me repeat this is the
pattern which we are going to use. So
this notebook was already shared uh
before the start of the uh agents. Okay,
so this is a advanced pattern which
gives agent ability to iteratively
review and improve its own work creating
a powerful feedback mechanism. Okay, for
selfcorrection. So in the reflection
pattern that enables LLM to generate
some initial output
and critique to identify flaws or areas
for improvement and then modify. So
first you will have one agent. So let's
say a agent will generate the code. So
here this is the project that we are
going to do. Reflective self-correcting
code generation agent. This is the one
which we are going to build in this
entire notebook. So this agent will
receive the user request for generating
some code. So this is the one which will
generate the code that will give its
output to another agent which will be
your reflector uh agent. So generator
agent gives it output to the reflector
agent. Reflector agent will review the
code check for inconsistencies.
Execute the code. If there is any error
in the code, it will give a feedback to
the generator agent. Boss, your code is
not working. This is the Fana error I'm
getting. Please regenerate the code and
you know give me the updated code. So
this iteration may happen three four
times, five times. We can keep a track
in the agent state. We will keep a track
how many times this iteration is
happening and we can set up a threshold
also. So beyond let's say five
iterations if it goes means it is you
know stuck in some sort of a loop then
we can do a hard
stop okay
so if the generator is able to generate
an output which the reflector is giving
a go ahead okay then that will be given
back to the user that's the overall
thing and then uh the parallel agent we
will take in the next session okay
followed by memory. Okay, the we'll do
all the agents don't worry but I'm just
telling you where we are as of now in
our agentic pattern so that you are very
clear what all agents we have already
implemented so this is the code let me
just share this notebook book.
what patterns we have covered so far. I
would suggest you to figure out based on
the projects that we have. I just
reviewed this document and still the
same question is being asked. So now you
go through all the labs that I have done
and try to connect those dots. Okay? try
to do a one-on-one mapping that this lab
has already used the tools, this lab has
already done this pattern. Let me know
in the next session if there is any
mismatch. I'll correct you. Okay.
Okay. So this I have just now showed
reflection pattern. We'll have two
things.
So I think yeah this is the same system
diagram. User prompt will ask the
generator to generate some code and then
reflector will review that code.
Reflector will provide the critical
review and based on that critical review
the generator code will come up with a
revised version of that. Okay.
If you want to see a practical use of
this, I don't know how much time we
have. Um,
let me see if I can show you
a end to end system
a real
use case.
Okay, I'll show you.
Fortunately, I got that. So,
is this visible?
Okay.
So this is my AWS MCP server that I have
created on my own completely from
scratch kind of. Okay. And uh what is
the main purpose of this? Okay. Maybe I
can show you.
Okay. So this tool automates AWS
operations by generating, validating and
executing secure B23 code. So this
purely uses the same
um architecture which I'm going to do in
this project. Okay. So you can take this
project as a starter and try to
replicate or create something of this
sort. Okay. That's an extension to that
project. So I'm just showing you so that
you can feel motivated what all can be
done. Can all can these labs be just
made into production grade? Answer is
yes. And so this is a very much
production grade code. Okay,
I also have a chain lit uh interface.
Maybe I can show you that as well later
also you can see guardrails are
implemented. Lot of things are there.
Okay, on the left side
examples, test code generation,
execution. Okay. Anyway, so this is
generating code on the fly using some
models and uh uh fine
these are the features which are there.
So dynamically generates executable code
which is a boto3 code. People who are
coming from AWS understand what is
boto3. So boto3 is a API
SDK you can say of AWS. You can connect
to any of the AWS infrastructure using
the boto3 API.
Okay. Literally any AWS service. I have
also set up lot of guardrails reduction
and reduction and other things.
Reflective loop. So obviously you have a
generator and a reflector exactly the
same way what I have discussed in that
lab although and then a lot of batch
processing and confirmations other
things are there which right now
okay um
this is powershell so might this
activating
Okay. So I'm into my virtual
environment.
Now I will get see this is a good
practice. Okay. Because you will be
parallely working on so many projects
how to actually start. So anyway
installations and those things are not
needed. I have already configured my
environment file with a number of
settings which I'll show you. Okay. And
this is how I can
put up my queries. So literally I'm
connecting to my AWS account using this
project. Okay. And in real time these
queries are going to be made. Okay. So
let me show you. So the first query I'm
making is list all the S3 buckets. Okay.
And you see
total execution time it has started. So
this is the query list all the three
buckets.
Okay. Assuming some role. This is my AWS
account actual AWS account. So this is
like role assumption is done by my code.
Once the role role is assumed
successfully, it will start executing
the uh Boto3 code. Now my gen has
initialized.
Uh first it will generate. So verbose
debug original query is this. There is
no sensitive information detected in the
input prompt.
Okay. So I will use the original query
for execution. Okay. So the only
reduction happened is on the account ID.
Fine.
And then this is the code which was
generated by my generator.
This is the code actually generated in
the first attempt. This is the raw
coming from the LLM. Okay. And there is
no reduction needed. Okay. So
probably uh because there is no
reduction needed. Uh the same code was
used. The only reduction happened was on
the alias uh sorry account. So in the
back end I am creating some sort of a
alias map. Rest all the code is being
exactly the same. The only reduction
happening is on the account level. I
mean this account ID. This account ID.
Okay. Now once that is done success. Now
why is it a success? Because if I just
go back to my
code here you can see if I just go below
you can see success failure success
failure many times. Okay. So once the
agent runs okay this is the code which
is generated and then it will be
evaluated okay
so code execution no errors found
decision finish same thing is happening
here also so these are my console
messages you see same thing is happening
here
so success on attempt one means this
code is correct and execution did not
give any error two things the code is
correct and the execution did not result
in an error and the response now I'm
getting from the model that successfully
retrived a list of buckets there is one
bucket called as this which is currently
active this was created on 23rd of
number there are no errors in this
process if you need so this is the final
thing that I have got okay so let me ask
another question
uh I think I'll just change this
Okay. Okay.
Okay. What are they?
Uh what are the
AC2 instances
running in my account? Let's see.
Okay. So this is the query.
So this part I have already explained.
So what are this? No sensitive
information detected. Okay, I'll
probably show you one or two queries
with sensitive information and probably
that will make sense.
uh the actual uh guard railing part. So
you see this is the code which was
generated from the LLM in real time and
uh this was along with the alias map
success on the first attempt itself.
Good. So you have one EC2 instance
running in your account and this is the
instance ID. Now I can tell you one
thing that this instance ID was not seen
by the LM.
this instance ID was actually not seen
by the LLM.
Uh how do I know?
Yeah. So this is the final details but
question is how do I know? Okay, let me
try.
Oh,
was I not sharing the complete screen?
I think I was not sharing the complete
screen. Let's see.
Did you see this? Did you see this?
What happened?
Yes, ID screen. Uh, so yeah. Yeah,
sorry. So I thought I am sharing my
entire screen. I just now realized I was
sharing the
uh different screen. Yeah. So this is
how it is. Okay. So this is the query
which I had given. What are the EC2
instances running and you can see um
this actual account ID this is the code
which was generated. So original query
there was nothing to redact and this is
the code which is generated by my
generator component of the overall
agent. Then uh after reduction anything
and success on attempt one means this
code did not
this code did not meet any
um you can say errors. This code did not
face any errors. So it was successful.
Okay. And this is the final response I
have got. Okay. I can maybe
do one follow-up question. Okay. So
let's do one thing.
Okay.
So I'll just copy the instance ID.
Clear.
Okay.
So what is the status of
Let's see what happens.
So query is asking about this EC2
instance
redacted one sensitive item. So what is
the reduction? See it was redacting one
of the information and what was that
information?
You can see the instance ID was
redacted. can see. So that is the beauty
of guardrails that I set up. Okay. So my
account ID is also not shared with the
model.
Instance ID was redacted and still was
in the first attempt it was able to
do you you can see the reducted codes
are also present in the so this is the
reducted code. This is the original code
generated by the model. This is the
reducted code which was executed. Okay.
and the final response I'm getting from
the model. So again the model has not
seen this instance ID. I can guarantee
you that okay because it was reducted
anyway and still it tells me the
complete information that it is
currently running state and there are no
errors. So executed you can check the
status processed one item. This is the
index ID in a bit. Right? So I have a
user interface for doing all of this as
well. Maybe I'll show you those things
later. But see these are the things you
can actually do. Um
you can also ask uh maybe anything about
the key pairs or you want to do uh
delete this instance that is also
possible. Literally I have done uh I can
just fire a query delete this instance.
It will actually delete that instance
also but pause that instance. Okay. So
it might also work. So,
okay.
or
this
EC2 instance. Let's see what happens.
I'm trying this after a long time but I
have extensively used this
system.
Okay. So again the instance ID was
redacted
code was generated
using that reducted instance name
success on attempt is currently in the
process of stop. Super
there is no and now if I the status is
stopping right. So after 5 seconds maybe
15 seconds or 30 seconds if I ask what
is the status it will tell me that it is
already in the stopped state. So I'm
just going back to the previous question
now. Okay. So let's give this some more
seconds. So you see I didn't even have
to login into my account. This is
something what I have created. Okay.
Uh so now I'm querying the status. What
is the status of this?
So ideally it should tell me that it is
in the paused state or stopped state.
Super. You see
this is all working.
Okay. With all proper guardrails and so
this is your reflector pattern. Now I
can show you the architecture.
Uh
where is that?
Red me does not have the architecture.
Yeah, architecture document is there
which I moved.
Seriously,
dogs
legacy might have
architectures.
I don't know what I did with that
architecture document. It was there
somewhere. But let's look at the P
itself. I think the P will have some
idea about the architecture.
Uh yeah, component status core engine.
So you have the generator executor. So
you have the generator code, you have
the executor code and the reflector
that's what I told you right that is a
core engine and then you have the
guardrailing engine then CLI engine okay
and then rest all our normal operations
right but your core engine itself has
all that information so which is what
this project is also all about Okay.
H
how much time we have? 5 minutes. Okay.
Let's see. I will not be able to finish
this. But at least I have shown you a
real life use case of this entire thing
that we are generating. Okay. So
let's see if there are question or if
you want we can start this in the next
session also.
H
tier is expiring. Will it allow me to
create a new account with a new mail ID?
Theoretically, yes. But again, you'll
have to still set up your billing. Okay.
Uh I think the same credit card can be
used for multiple accounts. I haven't
tried it, but should be possible as long
as there is nothing pending in your free
account. Okay. Against that particular
credit card. to make sure that if there
is nothing pending everything is paid up
and theoretically yes should be
uh
so create multiple GM ids I think that
will work yeah
are we going to create any production
ready agents in this using an ID
see this takes lot of
time effort and iterations If we want to
do this in real time then
probably we will not be able to discuss
all the
length and breadth that we have been
able to cover because creating one such
project itself will take one course.
Okay. Literally the amount of thought
process architecting iterating
uh everything. Okay. So maybe if you
want you can propose
building a system like this in from
scratch along with me if you want or
offline whatever but I can tell you this
itself will consume the entire time of
the entire course.
So I would encourage you to try all
these things offline you know taking the
learnings from this course rather than
expecting to create something of this
within the course itself okay but don't
start from scratch that is the point
here I never started this project from
scratch
okay remember okay so you are always you
know standing on the shoulder of giants
that's the saying in English which means
This notebook was the starting point.
Tell them that follow this notebook. Uh
I'm going to create a agent which is
like this like this. Okay. This is the
overall task.
Ask it to generate a uh architecture
document. Review that document before
any code generation happens. Once you
are satisfied that okay, it has really
understood your requirements. All the
features of your application are
understood, documented
in the PD system architecture is clear.
At what stages, what all frameworks will
will be used, what all files will be
created, how will the file be organized
into multiple folders and trees. Okay.
So this back and forth conversation
itself will happen for first few days.
So in the first 10 15 iteration sorry 10
to 15 conversations with the model I
will not even ask it to generate a
single line of code.
So unless I'm 210% sure that the model
has really understood and documented
what I I need then the code generation
starts phase by phase I will uh you know
break this entire project. I'll ask the
model to you know now that you have a
complete idea about the system
architecture and the P break this entire
project into 10 phases or five phases
and for each phase
give me a unit test. How do I figure out
that that phase is successful? Okay. So
it will create another document in which
all these phases will be documented and
unit test for each of those phases will
also be documented. Then
you go to a fresh uh uh you know
session and then start with the phase
one do a unit test manually.
Some changes might be needed then go
with phase two. I mean I normally do
that way. Now there are agents which
will do the phase 1 2 3 4 5 back to back
on their own. This is what the
repletable and those things do. They
will require minimum intervention from
the users. But I don't prefer those
things. Okay. So I normally want to
verify each and every phase manually
which is why I will also ask the unit
test or maybe let me
check if I can just hold on hold on hold
on. Okay
let's see how lucky you are.
Let me see.
H okay. So I'll do one thing just that
we are not
doing this project. Uh so I will want
you to check this out. Okay. I don't
have all the conversations frankly but
this is one of the initial conversations
okay one of the initial conversations so
convert this notebook into a broad level
app you see I did not start from scratch
that's what I told you this is
three-phase agent I created that
somewhere uh additionally so that's what
I said you are not going to start from
scratch even these labs can be
considered as your starting points
you see and that's what I have done can
you on the top right top right convert
this into a production level app create
a new folder called AWS infrastructure
manager you see this is the starting
point of this particular project itself
so what I told you is not theory I have
actually implemented exactly in the same
manner
this is the creation of the folder
forget about any other thing I mean so
many files now you are able to see
hundreds of them but this is the
starting conversation I'm having now
read uh um prompt okay uh with within
the project route and modularize this
entire notebook so that the main.py Py
takes the user query from the command
line or a list of queries. Submit me the
refactored plan first. Exactly. That's
what I told you. Don't ever ask for any
codes. Make sure that it has understood
gives a refactoring plan document which
I might have deleted by now. Okay, which
I might have deleted. Okay, don't uh so
but this is the overall uh plan it had
submitted. You can see so so many
folders will be created, so many files
will be created, phase 1, phase 2, phase
three and then the refactoring steps
will happen. Requirement.txt will be
created, readmin.ext will be created,
environment file will be created and
then other configuration settings. So
that is in the phase one you can see.
Okay. And then in the phase two this
will be done. Phase three this will be
done. Phase four this will be done. And
phase five this will be done. Phase six
this will be done. Okay. That's what I
told you and it has just given something
but not yet created. Okay. This is how
you would be calling. Fine. Uh something
something and configuration priority.
Now these are the features basically.
Okay. So these are the design decisions
that we need to make. Okay. And then
migration checklist I have got. Total
estimated file count is 13 around 2,500
to 3,000 lines of code. Test coverage
next steps. Okay. Then I think the graph
can be merged with so basically I what I
said is there are couple of folders here
uh so agents is there and the graph is
there so which is langraph so what I
said is why don't you merge these two
because ultimately we are creating
langraph agents only so I asked it to
merge okay let's see what it responded
okay
so you merge these two also go through
the revised architecture so this revised
architecture I generated from claude
downloaded that and gave it as a you
know additional thing. Okay. Now submit
me a revised implementation plan. So
this was not generated here. This was
generated using clawude opus or
something which I uh use from the web
interface. So so there are multiple
steps multiple branches in my usual
workflow. I don't generate normally
everything from here. uh the entire
brainstorming or most of the
brainstorming I prefer to do it in
cloud. Okay. So I imported the markdown
files and now this is the revised
refratoring plan. Okay. This is the
revised refactoring. These are the key
changes. Now this is the entire
architecture. Okay. Ambiguity detection.
This this that observation. So this is
like a react agent ultimately. Okay. So
for complex boto3 and for simple it will
go for CLI. Okay. And so on so on so on
you can see phase one phase 2 phase
three. So this is the revised phase wise
plan. Fine. No code generated till now.
Enhanced features as per the new
architecture. Fine. Whatever that was
the migration checklist example usage
this is the output and so on. So summary
of changes from the original plan. Fine.
So original plan had got two executors.
Now I've got three executors. agent
nodes originally it was four and now I
made it five to check the ambiguity of
the codes and so on okay ambiguity
detection was not there policy creation
was not there I did that in the device
plan fine holder structure separate I
merged fine so these are the changes
roughly 1,000 line of code was increased
so this was basic three-phase and now it
has so are you ready to proceed okay
this looks good update the architecture
document also with the latest so this
document somewhere I think alternated
accidentally and also create a PR
with the detail wise phase wide and you
will update this document as the
progress is being made. Okay, let's go.
So now it has only created two files. So
till now again no code has got
generated. Now I'm asking it to just
generate architecture
uh MD and PMD. That's it. So in this
entire exercise two documents have got
created. One is this, one is this. Don't
be in a hurry to generate code. See
that's my you know strong
suggestion. Okay now looks good. Let's
begin with the phase one. And that's
what exactly I told you. So now it has
started creating all the files for the
phase one. So phase one then I will
manually verify. Okay. So it has told me
that these are the files I have created
in a phase one. I would have now
continue with phase two. I would have
manually verified that and then come
back. This was all done two months ago.
Okay. So now continue with phase two. So
don't you know give too many tasks. So
phase two complete I would have manually
verified that and then asked it to
continue uh to the phase three. So phase
three continued you can see
continue with phase four. So phase four
continued. So phase four is complete and
then uh
so many things are happening.
Uh next steps agent five agent. So phase
five. So phase five is also getting
completed. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Now
continue to phase six also being done.
Done. Done. Done. So next step phase
seven. Okay. Phase seven is also being
done.
Now application is ready for immediate
use. Fine. Now I start getting some
queries and errors. Okay. I might have
got this unexpected error. Some keys
required. Okay. So I see the issue. API
keys required. And now enhancements will
start based on these errors and so on.
There is another problem. Now you can
see there is one more error happening
somewhere. So now it will modify based
on that error. Is the console output
being saved somewhere? Because I also
want to probably save this console
output. So then it created another file
log file. So there's a logger
which got implemented and so on. Now
this is one of the uh then debugging
masking. So these are different
different sessions. So I just opened one
of the sessions. This is for another
session. This is for the uh masking of
the uh PIIs. So let me show you how I
did that masking of the PIS. Again this
is all completely prompts. So I'm not
writing codes. I'm just giving the right
set of prompts. Okay. How to do the PII
reduction. So now a stretch goal. Now
that functionality I'm clear. So a
stretch goal design and create a
professional gy for this project. So
I'll show you the gy in the next class.
Okay. And don't change the existing code
at any cost. Do you want to do a stream
chain lit or fast pay for this?
Brainstorm and give me the detailed
explanation for your choice. I have not
asked it to generate any code yet. So it
will give me a detailed set of you know
requirements and so I thought okay let's
go with chain lit.
So this was done in chain lit and some
errors were coming I think so that was
resolved in the next iteration.
So chain lit was the main app. I think
change it
app.
Yeah,
I don't know if you can see this.
Okay, this is the chain link code. Okay,
some account ID is there. Guardails are
active and this is the model being used.
Okay, how do you help? So just
be AC2 instances in my account. Let's
see what happens.
Starting your GIA engine. This is the
generated code. Now the executor
execution is successful. This is the
instance ID. Super.
Okay,
this is the raw code plan is proposed
and so on. So I'm able to trace back
each and everything how things happened.
So this is the front end part of it.
Okay.
So you see um everything is you know
happening back to back but uh multiple
interventions are needed. Okay. So
this doesn't happen in one. I would
suggest never redact any region names.
So again it was redacting too many
things. Oh I gave a feedback. Don't
redact this. Don't redact that. You have
to make sure you are redacting this not
that. So multiple attempts have gone in
and then again so
I came across another article. So I gave
this article why don't you you know read
this article and make sure that you can
utilize the learning from that article
in our project. So even that I do you
see and that entire article was shared
okay this entire article with design
patterns codes and everything this is
all coming from this entire article and
simply I said is this of any help see
this is also a good way okay so now it
says yes this is very helpful it maps
perfectly on what we are building so if
you're reading something and you find
something helpful give it to the model
support the model don't expect
everything so as long as You're
supporting the model with all sort of
documentation, additional codes that you
find somewhere else which could be
related, which could be helpful. Keep on
providing all that. Okay. So model
completely doesn't you know generate
from scratch or hallucinate from
scratch. It stays grounded with these
articles with these starter codes and so
on. Okay. So that really reduces the
iteration cycle. Okay.
So again
I don't want you to implement any
solution specific uh again now you can
okay let me end the session too late yes
you have a question
so I have shown you how to build a
production level app from scratch
literally now today okay so see building
this takes time but the theory behind it
should be here.
So that was the whole takeaway.
Okay.
So any questions? What model did you use
to refactor? I don't remember. Most of
the codes I have done it from set 4.5
only two months ago. Yeah, set 4.5 that
is the most common model I've used. 80%
of my codes have been generated from set
only.
Unmute.
Okay.
Yes, she can't.
You can unmute and ask.
Hey um question quick question when we
we are generating like phase wise what
you just mentioned the procedure best
practice still do you need to understand
the code going inside the python file or
I know you test and you verify each
component and they go to next step right
um like do we need to
>> this is where the difference between a
developer and a architect is architect's
job finishes in the first four prompts
>> got okay
>> end of the Story end of the story. End
of the discussion. Solution architect
job finished in the first four prompts
where we finalize the architecture.prd
and the sorry architecture.m MD and the
PR.MD done. What all frameworks we are
going to use whether we are going to use
gartails or not in which step you are
going to introduce the guardrails. So
all that planning is done before you
start writing the first code for the
first phase.
All the brainstorming is what the job
role or the JD of the solution architect
is.
>> Solution architect is not expected to
implement all these and you know break
their head with each of these uh you
know code implementations and their
errors and everything else. Okay, that
is what a developer will do ultimately.
So LLM engineer, LLM developer, geni
developer, agentic developer, whatever
you know role that you see which is a
builder role. So you have to clarify
right in this before the start of the
interview is this a builder level role
or a planner level role
>> you have to be very clear with your ask
and the kind of role that you are
seeking. Okay.
>> Unless you are very comfortable reading
thousands of lines of code. Okay. It's
very tricky to you know get into a
builder kind of a profile. If you if
you're very new to Python just learned a
couple of weeks ago, I would still
suggest you to you know u hold on till
the end of the course before start
applying. But anyway, those process also
takes time and if you have already some
Python background you'll have to
strategically you know place your
profile. Exactly. Because again
the point is if they hire you for
building an application like this and
you have just started Python 3 weeks ago
I mean no way I can see you will be able
to build a production level app like
this even with the help of LLMs I can
guarantee you that
>> anyone can say anything but I'm giving
you the realistic uh expectation here
okay although these LLMs are going to
give you 90% of the code maybe even 99%
but that 1% % which is not working. It
will take you 99 days to figure out if
you're not a coder at heart.
>> Yeah, that makes sense.
>> One bug will keep you holding. Okay. And
you'll feel many times giving it up.
Okay. Proful. Yes. Go ahead.
>> Uh okay. Yeah. I am like coder at heart
like I've been going through these uh
Python
for a long time mostly I use LLMs
especially cloud to generate code and I
understands like where things are going
I can debug but I still don't have that
confidence like uh but even in my job
like currently I am a principal
statistical programmer these days I
don't remember all the codes
so practically Ally speaking uh how much
is the basic I feel like you know uh
basic I I I can explain list I can
explain some data structures but I can't
go more than that it does that suffice
uh okay so
point is as long as they are not asking
you to write down a code uh during the
interview that's all fine. Okay. U
understanding the actual components the
type of code or the exact data
structures which are needed to implement
a particular solution if you're able to
address those properly then we are still
good. So for example to create a
langraph graph agent what all components
we needed we needed this chat prompt
template we needed the llm with a
structured output you are creating
piantic schema so that you can enforce
the model so if that is the level of
explanation you are you are able to give
then it's just the manual process of
writing which can be outsourced but if
you are simply saying that we want to
create an agent which will write down a
code another agent which will review the
code so this is the explanation for a
solution architect.
But a builder will explain it in a more
uh deeper way that this agent
I mean the entire agent philosophy the
agent state what all components are
there and how is the agent state uh you
know created using piantic or type date
or then the follow-up question will come
why did you use type dictate and not
pantic and then the solution architect
is you know wondering and pondering but
the developer will be able to justify
that okay so Point is you have to give
or build enough confidence uh to the
interviewer that you can implement
things technically. So whenever you are
speaking some of these uh you know terms
should pro you know come up.
Uh so which will you know give a flavor
that you know things technically as
well. Okay. They may not ask you to
build the project right away during the
interview but uh yeah that's how I would
see it.
Yeah.
Okay.
Yes sir.
>> Day data architect more time in
analyzing trade-offs, coaching teams,
reviewing the failures, defining
guardrails. Yes, it does. Very good. So
that's very well articulated. That's the
correct expectation from uh architect.
Okay. Managing technical debt. Yes. And
of course overall project costing
influencing decision across engineerity
in product businesses. Watch how this is
preventative and insurance.
Yeah. Yeah. Please go ahead.
>> Yeah. Hey, uh I have a question
actually. So we learned the langraph.
Okay. I have a use case uh the realtime
use case convert the business
requirement to Jira features uh and
stories and create uh one in the Jiraas.
Okay. So you know sometime bit confused
whether should I use the really the
langraph or just you know plain two
three uh python program to do that one.
uh so
so at what stage I should you know
decide okay you know going with the
langraph for these use cases are good or
just you know give up because that's are
too much things we uh are happening in
the lang
>> we strongly suggest so for all these
hypothetical scenarios okay u or
established scenarios whatever it is
okay since hypothetical because we don't
have the application done right away we
are going to create it so anything which
is going to happen in future is
hypothetical. Okay. So all these kind of
potential use cases let's say that is a
better word potential use cases. Okay I
would again go back to the models
whatever the model I trust again Germany
or claude whatever best models which are
available state-of-the-art
do brainstorming again the same question
which you have asked me I'll ask it to
my model. Okay.
>> And
uh again go with uh the uh tree of
thought kind of prompting. Okay. So for
example whether to implement this in
Python or use langraph agents. Okay.
Think thoroughly and give me the pros
and cons for both the approaches and
then suggest to me which approach will
be better for this particular use case.
See that is the prompt.
>> Okay. I see. So I want everyone to you
know be be capable enough to help
themselves rather than me trying to
provide my views or my thought process
in solving your problem. No that then it
will never you will ever be dependent on
me.
>> Yeah. Okay.
>> I see.
>> Yeah.
>> So my idea is to teach you the right
way. So all the brainstorming I do it
from these models these days because I
have my intuitions no doubt for any
given use case I have my intuition what
will work and that is the reason I can
contradict it.
>> Mhm.
>> But let me see what the model says okay
I do not directly want to jump into the
solution. I'll try to give a fair chance
to these models to you know present
their solution their analysis based on
my previous years of experience. I know
what works, what doesn't work. And then
the contradiction phase starts. Two,
four, five interactions will be
contradiction. If you're doing this,
then this will be a problem. Okay? If
you're doing that, then that will be
another problem. Okay? So why are you
unnecessarily complicating? Don't you
think this will be a better solution?
And this way you also learning because
for your contradiction, the model will
present a better solution which you also
might have not thought.
>> So that is how you also become a better
planner, better architect. You see
>> okay yeah actually it's a realtime use
case only partially done by our team
okay but uh I'm working on integrating
with the Jira but so I'm bit confused so
that's why I asked but I understand I
have to use AI to solve my problem okay
use the AI tool uh to post my questions
and uh yeah thanks I got it yeah thanks
>> okay fine maybe it's already quite time
uh I'll have to hang up Now we'll meet
next week. Thank you. Have a nice day.
Bye-bye.